---
Title: "Chromebook Research"
layout: post
tags: tech hardware
---

I recently purchased a [HP Chromebook 14](//youtube.com/watch?v=9CRktwzULks).I found a cheap listed secondhand item, looked to be a bit messy - apparently it's major malfunction was a DOA internal battery - a [replacement](//hplaptopbattery.co.nz/hp-chromebook-14-q009tu-batteries.htm) worth another $99 from a NZ Supplier.I also have now, a redunandant 64G mSATA card - which was the OS drive for my linux server which was discomissioned after I migrated to a Mac mini & while during that migration, I suffered a massive drive failure.After doing some investigation, I found that the mSATA SSD & the battery are basically the only two user replacable components _(ignoring the daughter board)_.- [Disassembly of HP Chromebook 14 & upgrade of its SSD!](//youtube.com/watch?v=hlp3UCudrCA)
- [HP Chromebook Disassembly Replace SSD Reassembly. Chrome OS Missing or Damaged](//youtube.com/watch?v=-a0r_nNAqlw)I also remember some time ago, ChromeOS was getting support for Linux Apps.Some investigation [there's a bunch of Chromebooks](//linux.slashdot.org/story/18/08/24/1358255/linux-apps-are-not-coming-to-many-still-supported-chromebooks) that won't be getting that support, thankfully mine isn't on the list ... From what I can understand it's because of them having ARM processors? I'm not sure.Now apparently there is not a BIOS menu, one can boot into - but appears to be more of a closed off UEFI bootloader setup; as evidenced by this video, '[Modify the BIOS on your Chromebook](//youtube.com/watch?v=Nzp_fmG4QRA)'.If things go well, the Linux support might need a bit more than a 64G SSD, so I might install a [256G mSATA](//aliexpress.com/item/KingSpec-Factory-Sale-ACSC4M256mSA-256GB-mSATA-Hard-Drive-Disk-SSD-mSATA-Solid-State-Drive-Module-For/32730715407.html).Interestingly the 14-x003tu SKU, has a NVIDIA Tegra K1 Processor, onboard 4GB RAM & 16/32GB eMMC onboard SSD.Additionally the [Maintainence & Service Guide](http://h10032.www1.hp.com/ctg/Manual/c03936089) provides two different boards a 4GB & 2GB variant, same Processor - but it also indicates 16GB & 32GB SKUs - I do have a 32G mSATA around spare, _two actually_ but there's every potential that it might not even accept a 64GB mSATA upgrade.After some looking around, I _might_ be able to upgrade the memory on the board too! They appear to be FBGA chips, 1G DDR3 SDRAM.
During the upgrade & battery replacement, I'll take a look at what chips my board has, it appears HP installs Micron modules on 4GB SKUs, but prefers to use SK-hynix chips for the 2GB SKUs.I just need access to a heat gun station, it might be an interesting project - upgrading RAM on a Chromebook. I don't think it's been done before? Well upgrading RAM on a board _without_ SODIMM slots, intended for memory upgrades.
